.TH GIT\-ISSUE 1 "2026-02-07" "git-issue 1.0.0" "Git Issue Manual"
.SH NAME
git\-issue \- distributed issue tracking embedded in Git
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git issue
.I <command>
.RI [ <args> ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git\-issue
is a distributed issue tracker that stores issues directly inside a Git
repository as orphan commit chains under
.BR refs/issues/ .
Each issue is identified by a UUID and has a 7-character abbreviated
display ID.
Issues are first-class Git objects: they travel with
.BR "git fetch" / "git push" ,
merge across forks, and work fully offline.
.PP
Issue metadata (state, labels, assignee, priority, milestone) is stored
as Git trailers in commit messages.
The root commit of each chain holds the issue title and initial metadata.
Subsequent commits represent comments, state changes, and edits.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Configure the current repository for issue tracking by adding the
.B refs/issues/*
fetch refspec to a remote.
.TP
.B create
Create a new issue with a title and optional metadata.
.TP
.B ls
List issues with filtering and sorting options.
.TP
.B show
Show full details and comment history of an issue.
.TP
.B comment
Add a comment to an existing issue.
.TP
.B edit
Edit issue metadata (title, labels, assignee, priority, milestone).
.TP
.B state
Change the state of an issue (open, close, or custom).
.TP
.B search
Search issue titles, bodies, and comments for a text pattern.
.TP
.B merge
Fetch and merge issues from a remote repository with automatic
conflict resolution.
.TP
.B fsck
Validate issue data integrity (UUID format, empty trees, required
trailers, commit chain structure).
.TP
.B import
Import issues from an external provider (currently GitHub).
.TP
.B export
Export local issues to an external provider (currently GitHub).
.TP
.B sync
Two-way synchronization (import followed by export).
.TP
.B version
Print version information.
.SH DATA MODEL
Each issue lives under
.BI refs/issues/ <uuid>
as a linear chain of commits (or a DAG after merges).
All commits use the empty tree so that no files are stored.
.PP
The root commit message has the form:
.RS
.nf
<title>

<optional body>

State: open
Labels: bug, urgent
Assignee: user@example.com
Priority: high
Milestone: v1.0
Format-Version: 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Subsequent commits may carry trailers to record state changes,
metadata edits, or just plain-text comments.
.SH MERGE STRATEGY
When issues diverge between repositories,
.B git issue merge
uses field-specific resolution:
.IP \(bu 2
Scalar fields (state, assignee, priority, milestone): last-writer-wins
by commit timestamp.
.IP \(bu 2
Labels: three-way set merge (additions from both sides are unioned,
removals are respected unless the same label was re-added).
.IP \(bu 2
Comments: union of both chains via a two-parent merge commit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B git\-issue
requires a working Git installation (2.0 or later).
Bridge commands (import, export, sync) additionally require
.BR gh (1)
and
.BR jq (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git\-issue\-init (1),
.BR git\-issue\-create (1),
.BR git\-issue\-ls (1),
.BR git\-issue\-show (1),
.BR git\-issue\-comment (1),
.BR git\-issue\-edit (1),
.BR git\-issue\-state (1),
.BR git\-issue\-search (1),
.BR git\-issue\-merge (1),
.BR git\-issue\-fsck (1),
.BR git\-issue\-import (1),
.BR git\-issue\-export (1),
.BR git\-issue\-sync (1),
.BR git (1)
