.TH GIT\-ISSUE\-LS 1 "2026-02-07" "git-issue 0.5.0" "Git Issue Manual"
.SH NAME
git\-issue\-ls \- list issues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git issue ls
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
List issues in the current repository with optional filtering by state,
label, assignee, or priority.
Results can be sorted and displayed in multiple output formats.
.PP
By default, only open issues are shown, sorted by creation date
(newest first).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-state " " \fI<state>\fR
Filter by state:
.BR open " (default), " closed ", " all .
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-label " " \fI<label>\fR
Filter by label.
.TP
.BI \-\-assignee " " <email>
Filter by assignee.
.TP
.BI \-\-priority " " <level>
Filter by priority:
.BR low ", " medium ", " high ", " critical .
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Show all issues regardless of state.
Equivalent to
.BR "\-\-state all" .
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fI<format>\fR
Output format:
.BR short " (default), " full ", " oneline .
.RS
.TP
.B short
.I <id> [<state>] <title>
.TP
.B full
Same as short with labels, assignee, priority, and milestone on a
second line.
.TP
.B oneline
.I <id> <state> <title>
(no brackets, suitable for scripting)
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-sort " " <field>
Sort by:
.BR created " (default), " updated ", " priority ", " state .
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage information.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all open issues:
.RS
.nf
$ git issue ls
.fi
.RE
.PP
List closed high-priority issues:
.RS
.nf
$ git issue ls -s closed --priority high
.fi
.RE
.PP
Machine-readable output sorted by priority:
.RS
.nf
$ git issue ls -a -f oneline --sort priority
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git\-issue (1),
.BR git\-issue\-show (1),
.BR git\-issue\-search (1)
