.TH GIT\-ISSUE\-EDIT 1 "2026-02-07" "git-issue 1.0.0" "Git Issue Manual"
.SH NAME
git\-issue\-edit \- edit issue metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git issue edit
.I <issue-id>
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Edit the metadata of an existing issue.
At least one edit option must be specified.
Changes are recorded as a new commit appended to the issue's
commit chain with appropriate Git trailers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-title " " \fI<text>\fR
Change the issue title.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-label " " \fI<label>\fR
Set labels, replacing all existing labels.
Can be repeated to set multiple labels.
.TP
.BI \-\-add\-label " " <label>
Add a label to the existing label set.
.TP
.BI \-\-remove\-label " " <label>
Remove a label from the existing label set.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-assignee " " \fI<email>\fR
Change the assignee.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-priority " " \fI<level>\fR
Change the priority:
.BR low ", " medium ", " high ", " critical .
.TP
.BI \-\-milestone " " <name>
Change the milestone.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-message " " \fI<text>\fR
Custom commit message for the edit.
Defaults to a generated summary of the changed fields.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Change priority and add a label:
.RS
.nf
$ git issue edit a1b2c3d -p critical --add-label regression
.fi
.RE
.PP
Replace all labels:
.RS
.nf
$ git issue edit a1b2c3d -l bug -l frontend
.fi
.RE
.PP
Rename an issue:
.RS
.nf
$ git issue edit a1b2c3d -t "New title for the issue"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git\-issue (1),
.BR git\-issue\-state (1),
.BR git\-issue\-show (1)
